
# Basic Usage

`phpZenfolio` follows the PSR-1, PSR-2 and PSR-4 conventions, which means you can easily use Composer's [autoloading](https://getcomposer.org/doc/01-basic-usage.md#autoloading) to integrate `phpZenfolio` into your projects.

```php
<?php
// This file is generated by Composer
require_once 'vendor/autoload.php';

$client = new phpZenfolio\Client('My Cool App/1.0 (http://app.com)'));
$photoset = $client->LoadPhotoSet(12345, 'Level1');
```

From the `$client` object, you can access to all the Zenfolio API methods.

# More In-depth Usage Details

## Instantiating the Client

The `phpZenfolio\Client()` constructor takes two arguments:

- `AppName` - **Required**.

    The name, version and URL of the application you have built using the phpZenfolio. There is no required format, but something like `My Cool App/1.0 (http://my.url.com)` would be very useful.

- An array of options - Optional.

    The options you pass here become the default options applied to all requests by default, unless explicitly overwritten elsewhere and can be made up of any combination of the following options:

    - `api_version` - The API version you wish to use. This defaults to `1.8` as this is the only version of the API this version of phpZenfolio is compatible with.  This is really only for "future proofing".

Additionally, you can pass any [Guzzle request option](http://docs.guzzlephp.org/en/latest/request-options.html) though `debug` and `proxy` are probably the only options you may need to set.


## Interacting with the Zenfolio API

Once you've instantiated an instance of the `phpZenfolio\Client`, you can use any of the [Zenfolio methods](http://www.zenfolio.com/zf/help/api/ref/methods/), exactly as they're documented, to interact with the API. This means you will need to pass the arguments in the order, case and form that Zenfolio expects.

Remember: *ALL* function names and arguments *ARE* case sensitive and the order of arguments is important.

**Note:** phpZenfolio does not currently support asynchronous requests, though as we now rely on Guzzle, this shouldn't be too hard to implement in future.


### Creating Objects and Making Changes

Some of the Zenfolio API methods, like `CreatePhotoSet()`, or `UpdatePhoto()` require an [Updater object](http://www.zenfolio.com/zf/help/api/ref/objects/updaters) to be passed as one of the arguments. phpZenfolio allows you to pass the object either as an associative array:

```php
<?php
$photoSetUpdater = array(
    'Title' => 'PhotoSet Title',
    'Caption' => 'PhotoSet Caption via API',
    'Keywords' => array('Keyword1', 'keyword2'),
    'Categories' => array(),
    'CustomReference' => 'testing/test-photoset'
);
$client->CreatePhotoSet(12345, 'Gallery', $photoSetUpdater);
```

... or as a standard class object:

```php
<?php
$photoSetUpdater = new stdClass();
$photoSetUpdater->Title = 'PhotoSet Title';
$photoSetUpdater->Caption = 'PhotoSet Caption via Object';
$photoSetUpdater->Keywords = array('Keyword1', 'keyword2');
$photoSetUpdater->Categories = array();
$photoSetUpdater->CustomReference = 'testing/test-photoset';
$client->CreatePhotoSet(12345, 'Gallery', $photoSetUpdater);
```

All data returned by the method call is returned as the API documents it.
